h1. OOPS: Object Oriented Php Sessions

Author: James Brumond
Version: 0.1.1-rc

Copyright 2010 James Brumond
Dual licensed under MIT and GPL

h2. Description

An object oriented PHP session class using database storage.

h2. Examples

<pre><code><?php
  
  // initialize
  $session = new Oops;
  
  // start a session
  $session->start();
  
  // add a value to the session data
  $session->set_value('name', 'value');
  
  // read a value from the session data
  $name = $session->get_value('name');
  
  // remove a value from the session data
  $session->unset_value('name');
  
  // regenerate the session id
  // note: by default, this is done automatically every new request
  $session->regenerate();
  
  // destroy the session
  $session->destroy();
  
?></code></pre>

h2. Installation

To install OOPS, there are only two really important steps that must be done, and those are to install the MySQL database and set the config settings. The MySQL database must follow the structure:

<pre><code>
create table session_table (
 session_id varchar(40) default '0' not null,
 ip_address varchar(16) default '0' not null,
 user_agent varchar(50) not null,
 last_activity int(10) unsigned default 0 not null,
 user_data text not null,
 primary key (session_id)
);
</code></pre>

Once that is done, open the file @config.oops.php@ and change the values there to the desired settings.

h2. Synopsis

<pre><code>

Constructor
OopsObject Oops::__construct ( void )


Check if there is a running session (eg. @Oops::start@ has been called)
bool Oops::is_open ( void )


Start a new session or load an old one
void Oops::start ( void )


Destroy the current session
void Oops::destroy ( void )


Regenerate the session id
void Oops::regenerate ( void )


Store a session value
void Oops::set_value ( string $name, mixed $value )


Get a stored session value
mixed Oops::get_value ( string $name )


Delete a stored session value
void Oops::unset_value ( string $name )


Read-only property containing the session id
string Oops::session_id

</code></pre>

